### Meeting with Mieszko & Peter

Date: 2020-06-30

Subject: Regarding helping out Peter wrapping up his *Spectre* vulnerabililty security project.

#### Background

Spectre is aconcsequence of sharing cache and speculative execution. Trick the kernal to do something for us.The hardware figures out which instructions are indepdents and execute them in parallel.

When switching threads, internal states like regs are switched. But external statse like cache and memory are not. Each program has their own translation table for their vitual memory — acting as some kind of isolation at an architectural level.

The “access” to specific protected data is during speculation, so we don’t have the data actually. 

Exfiltrate data between two protected domain is done using cache.

---

For out of order exec, we need some area to store the results while we’re waiting for $ miss. If there’s a branch in the instruction window, there’s a branch predictor (usually around 90% accuracy b/c this is typically in loops).

The CPU will speculate and fetch instructions after the branch. It’s going to mark each instruction with a bit that tells its speculative. 

When the $ miss value is loaded, CPU goes back to the branch and figures out if the prediction is right or not. 

Transparacy: there’s no way that the program to figure out if its instructions are being executed spectively.

Spectre inject something in speculative path. Then the speculative path gets thrown away, but the prime-and-probe footprint in the cahce, then the actacking program cna probe the cache and time it to receive data.

“Store” instructions in speculative branch are stored separately. Until CPU confirm to execute speculative branch, the values will not be written to cache or memory.

---

#### Existing Work

Recent CPUs “fixes” these issues makes branches harder to mis-train. But they do not address the fundamental issue: which is speculative execution exists (doesn’t even need branch)

Software “fixes” e.g. retpoline: replace a branch with a more complicated branch (like redirects).

Academic proposals:

- takes the cache and separate it into each programs.  This blocks the side channel but this approach is hard to predict which programs to separate. But this doesn’t scale. If we knew which program to separate, why not just don’t run it. The other problem is there is less cache and no dynamic sharing.
- Isolate changes to cahce, and flush unless confirmed non-spculative. Thus preventing speculative code to leave footprint on the cache. 📖
- Other way including applying cahnges but carefully undo the misspeculation (clean up spec) 📖
- The problem with all these solutions is that it poses **significant performance overheads**. And both solutions assumes all instructions are guilty until proven innocent. Also there is no alert.

Hence:

#### Peter’s Work

*“Catch rogue programs as they come instead of punishing all innocent programs”*

To flush out his proposal more, we need to create a dynamic way to partition the cache. To figure out who is guilty based on suspicious traits. Upon then, we can try to divde the cache access into two separate domains. 

For it to work, we need to have two different processes. 



---

This proposal has some options:

1. Get it to work well enough to get a full paper, not entirely proven idea but proven diea
2. Next architecture venue deadline is end of July; if there is some amazing results, we can potentially submitting to that.

---

Read NewCache

Gem5 - full cpu simulation (software simulation) — it is complicated and slow. It has two modes: system emulation mode and full system mode. The former fakes the software, it offloads certain thigns to “real” system components.

Peter implemented newCache architecture in Gem5 to experiement. But hasn’t had the time to use Gem5 to create this full scale Linux environment.

### Readings

- Spectre paper (top priority): https://spectreattack.com/spectre.pdf
  - Spectre is a attack technique that exploits speculative execution technique used in modern CPU architectures.
  - It involves mistraining a branch predictor (since branching is often the most frequent ways to make CPU do speculative execution) by:
    1. Causing a cache-miss memory access, such as specifying a malicious range check (`if (x < arr_range)` when `x` is 1000 and `arr_range` is 8).
    2. Mistrained branch predictor will then execute the incorrect branch speculatively.
  - Normally the results of the speculated executation is useless, as CPU after a while figures out that the out-of-order execution is wrong, and throws away the results. However the execution done speculatively leaves footprint on the cache.
  - The cache can then be used as a covert/side channel to leak information from victim process using techniques such as prime+probe or flush+reload
- Flush and reload: https://eprint.iacr.org/2013/448.pdf
  - Flush and reload technique exploits the fact that processes can use shared pages. ❓(although i’m not sure how that fits into the caching stuff)
  - By using a x86 flawed command to flush the cache, we can tell if a memory address has been accessed or not by measuring the time it takes to access afterwards.
- NewCache: http://palms.ee.princeton.edu/system/files/07723806.pdf
  - The address decoder is replaced with a CAM that does more mapping. The replacement policy is random, and the mapping is “random” but is also deterministic.
  - Fundamental problem is a line in memory maps deterministically in a line in cache.
- InvisiSpec: https://iacoma.cs.uiuc.edu/iacoma-papers/micro18.pdf

Gem 5: https://www.gem5.org/documentation/learning_gem5/introduction/

Meltdown is not as important — while spectre is a fundamental flow with doing OOO executuion. Meltdown is a problem is something wrong with Intel memory access leak, which they fixed.

### Thinking

- If most of the attacks relies on precisely timing the side channel/cache access, and solutions exist to “fix” it by adding jitters to timers, can we report a randomized access time if we detect a certain trait (i.e. cache flushing or suspicious activity)?

